XS✔ ◾ Changes to rules to formatting new lines and inclusions in related rules (#8272)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/format-new-lines/rule.md

---
type: rule
title: Do you enhance readability with line breaks and spacing?
uri: format-new-lines
authors:
  - title: Brady Stroud
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/brady-stroud
  - title: Adam Cogan
    url: https://www.ssw.com.au/people/adam-cogan/
  - title: Josh Berman
    url: https://www.ssw.com.au/people/josh-berman/
  - title: Tiago Araujo
    url: https://www.ssw.com.au/people/tiago-araujo
  - title: Jayden Alchin
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/jayden-alchin/
related:
  - add-useful-and-concise-figure-captions
  - use-the-right-html-figure-caption
created: 2021-07-06T01:13:05.707Z
archivedreason: ""
guid: e05522a7-1822-412c-80ee-5619039f7d96

---

Writing in large blocks of text is a common practice, but it can hinder readability. Incorporating line breaks and spacing significantly enhances content readability. This allows readers to navigate through the text more easily, absorb information more effectively, and stay engaged with the material.

<!--endintro-->

::: info

> **Warning:** In web pages (HTML/Markdown), line breaks **should not be used to to create layout spacing** - it is a bad practice. You should use CSS margins and paddings to achieve it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Warning:** In web pages (HTML/Markdown), line breaks **should not be used to to create layout spacing** - it is a bad practice. You should use CSS margin and padding instead.
```

:::
::: good  
Figure: Good example - Spacing after heading
:::

### Multiple items should be a list

If you text has information that can become multiple items, it should be a list. For example, when sending PBIs for a Sprint.

::: greybox
I have 2 PBIs in the coming Sprint: Product Backlog Item 88994: Performance | Create a new App Service plan and Product Backlog Item 88823: Azure | Create a new App Service Plan in West US for SL production resource group. I will do the IoC after.
:::
::: bad  
Figure: Bad example - Block of text
:::

::: greybox
I have 2 PBIs in the coming Sprint:

* PBI 88994: Performance | Create a new App Service plan
* PBI 88823: Azure | Create a new App Service Plan in West US for SL production resource group

I will do the IoC after.

:::
::: good  
Figure: Good example - List is used to separate information and make it easier to digest
:::

**Note:** On the example above, see how changing from "Product Backlog Item" to "PBI" also helps with readability. However you should [only use acronyms when you know the recipient is familiar with the term](/avoid-acronyms).

### Images and captions

> It is also recommended to include spaces after an image or a figure description. These elements need breathing space to help user focus on them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also recommended to include spaces after an image or a figure description. These elements need breathing space to help users focus on them.
```
